README.rst, before:



.. contents:: Table of Contents




Introduction
============

With ``ftw.mobile`` you can implement mobile buttons, which shows a list of options on click.
The package needs ftw.theming, which provides the basic styles.

Plus it provides a mobile navigation, which is also displayed as a mobile button, but nbehaves completely different.

**ALPHA STATE: This software is currently under heavy development and the actual version may not be compatible with the final version.**


Installation
============

- Add the package to your buildout configuration:

::

    [instance]
    eggs +=
        ...
        ftw.mobile


Usage
=====

Two default buttons are registered by default.

- User Menu
- Navigation

Basically the buttons are rendered in a viewlet, which is visible at an certain viewport size.


Register new button
-------------------

Minimal example:

::

    from ftw.mobile.buttons import BaseButton


    class UserButton(BaseButton):

        def label(self):
            return u"User menu"

        def position(self):
            return 1000

        def data(self):
            """json data to display"""
            context_state = getMultiAdapter((self.context, self.request),
                                            name=u'plone_context_state')

            user_actions = context_state.actions('user')

            def link_data(item):
                return {'url': item.get('url'),
                        'label': item.get('title')}
            return map(link_data, user_actions)


You need to define at least the ``label``, the ``position`` and the ``data`` for a working mobile button.

Keep in mind, that the data method needs to return valid json data structure:

::

    [
        {
            "url": "$LINK_URL",
            "label": "$LINK_LABEL"
        },
        {
            "url": "$LINK_URL",
             "label": "$LINK_LABEL"
        }
    ]


The user button has the postion 1000 and is rendered most right position and the navigation has the position 100, which is on the most left side.

The navigation button is somehow special across his complexity. The navigation button is not considered a `simple` button ;-)


Details Navigation Button
-------------------------

The mobilenavigation adds two additional wrappers arround all children of the body on pageload.


Development
===========

**Python:**

1. Fork this repo
2. Clone your fork
3. Shell: ``ln -s development.cfg buidlout.cfg``
4. Shell: ``python boostrap.py``
5. Shell: ``bin/buildout``

Run ``bin/test`` to test your changes.

Or start an instance by running ``bin/instance fg``.

Links
=====

- Github: https://github.com/4teamwork/ftw.mobile
- Issues: https://github.com/4teamwork/ftw.mobile/issues
- Pypi: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/ftw.mobile
- Continuous integration: https://jenkins.4teamwork.ch/search?q=ftw.mobile

Copyright
=========

This package is copyright by `4teamwork <http://www.4teamwork.ch/>`_.

``ftw.mobile`` is licensed under GNU General Public License, version 2.

Commit message:

Install ftw.gopip for better performance.
ftw.mobile does large catalog queries ordered by the
getObjPositionInParent, which is actually very slow because it loads the
objects.

ftw.gopip improves the getObjPositionInParent index read performance by
replacing it with a FieldIndex which actually stores the position so
that the objects must no longer be woken up for sorting by position.

README.rst, after:



.. contents:: Table of Contents




Introduction
============

With ``ftw.mobile`` you can implement mobile buttons, which shows a list of options on click.
The package needs ftw.theming, which provides the basic styles.

Plus it provides a mobile navigation, which is also displayed as a mobile button, but nbehaves completely different.

**ALPHA STATE: This software is currently under heavy development and the actual version may not be compatible with the final version.**


Installation
============

- Add the package to your buildout configuration:

::

    [instance]
    eggs +=
        ...
        ftw.mobile


Dependencies
============

**Warning:**
This package installs `ftw.gopip <https://github.com/4teamwork/ftw.gopip>`_,
replacing the ``getObjPositionInParent`` catalog index with a ``FieldIndex``.
The reason is that ``ftw.mobile`` needs to do large catalog queries sorted by
``getObjPositionInParent``, which is too slow in standard Plone.
See the ``ftw.gopip`` readme for further details.


Usage
=====

Two default buttons are registered by default.

- User Menu
- Navigation

Basically the buttons are rendered in a viewlet, which is visible at an certain viewport size.


Register new button
-------------------

Minimal example:

::

    from ftw.mobile.buttons import BaseButton


    class UserButton(BaseButton):

        def label(self):
            return u"User menu"

        def position(self):
            return 1000

        def data(self):
            """json data to display"""
            context_state = getMultiAdapter((self.context, self.request),
                                            name=u'plone_context_state')

            user_actions = context_state.actions('user')

            def link_data(item):
                return {'url': item.get('url'),
                        'label': item.get('title')}
            return map(link_data, user_actions)


You need to define at least the ``label``, the ``position`` and the ``data`` for a working mobile button.

Keep in mind, that the data method needs to return valid json data structure:

::

    [
        {
            "url": "$LINK_URL",
            "label": "$LINK_LABEL"
        },
        {
            "url": "$LINK_URL",
             "label": "$LINK_LABEL"
        }
    ]


The user button has the postion 1000 and is rendered most right position and the navigation has the position 100, which is on the most left side.

The navigation button is somehow special across his complexity. The navigation button is not considered a `simple` button ;-)


Details Navigation Button
-------------------------

The mobilenavigation adds two additional wrappers arround all children of the body on pageload.


Development
===========

**Python:**

1. Fork this repo
2. Clone your fork
3. Shell: ``ln -s development.cfg buidlout.cfg``
4. Shell: ``python boostrap.py``
5. Shell: ``bin/buildout``

Run ``bin/test`` to test your changes.

Or start an instance by running ``bin/instance fg``.

Links
=====

- Github: https://github.com/4teamwork/ftw.mobile
- Issues: https://github.com/4teamwork/ftw.mobile/issues
- Pypi: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/ftw.mobile
- Continuous integration: https://jenkins.4teamwork.ch/search?q=ftw.mobile

Copyright
=========

This package is copyright by `4teamwork <http://www.4teamwork.ch/>`_.

``ftw.mobile`` is licensed under GNU General Public License, version 2.
